---
# This file was generated by scripts/pre-build/library/formatForJekyll.js
title: "Assistive Technology Support Tables"
ref: /ARIA/apg/about/at-support-tables/

github:
  repository: w3c/aria-practices
  branch: main
  path: content/about/at-support-tables/at-support-tables.html
feedbackmail: public-aria-practices@w3.org
permalink: /ARIA/apg/about/at-support-tables/

sidebar: true



# Context here: https://github.com/w3c/wai-aria-practices/issues/31
type_of_guidance: APG

lang: en
---
<meta charset="UTF-8" />
<meta content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" name="viewport" />
<title>AT Support Tables</title>

<script src="../../../../content-assets/wai-aria-practices/shared/js/highlight.pack.js"></script>
<script src="../../../../content-assets/wai-aria-practices/shared/js/app.js"></script>


<link 
  rel="stylesheet"
  href="{{ '/content-assets/wai-aria-practices/styles.css' | relative_url }}"
>
<!-- Code highlighting styles -->
<link 
  rel="stylesheet"
  href="{{ '/content-assets/wai-aria-practices/shared/css/github.css' | relative_url }}"
>

<script>
const addBodyClass = undefined;
const enableSidebar = true;
if (addBodyClass) document.body.classList.add(addBodyClass);
if (enableSidebar) document.body.classList.add('has-sidebar');
</script>
    

<script>
    const parentPage = window.location.pathname.match(
      /\/(patterns|practices|about)\//
    )?.[1];
    if (parentPage) {
      const parentHref = 'a[href*="' + parentPage + '"]';
      document.querySelector(parentHref).classList.add('active');
    }
  </script>
<div>

  <div>
    
    <p>
      As the <a href="https://aria-at.w3.org/">ARIA and Assistive Technologies Project</a>
      makes reports on assistive technology interoperability for APG examples available,
      the APG Task Force adds summaries of assistive technology support to the relevant example pages.
      This page explains how to interpret and use the assistive technology support summaries.
    </p>

    <section id="purpose">
      <h2>Purpose of AT Support Tables</h2>
      <p>
        The purpose of the support tables is to provide an actionable summary of the interoperability tests performed by the <a href="http://aria-at.w3.org/">ARIA-AT project</a>.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="meaning">
      <h2>Meaning of support levels</h2>
      <p>
        The assistive technology support tables present two percentages for each Assistive Technology and Browser combination that have been tested: "Must-Have Behaviors" and "Should-Have Behaviors".
         A behavior designated as “Must-Have" is essential; if not provided, users could be blocked from using the UI element.
        Failure to provide a “Should-Have” behavior could meaningfully impede users.
        Learn more about ARIA-AT’s
        <a href="https://github.com/w3c/aria-at/wiki/Glossary#assertion-priority">definitions of Must and Should on the project wiki</a>.
        </p>

      <h3>Example Must-Have</h3>
      <p>TODO</p>
      <h3>Example Should-Have</h3>
      <p>TODO</p>
    </section>
    <section id="recommendations">
      <h2>Recommendations</h2>
      <h3>Don’t Code to the Bugs</h3>
      <p>
        ARIA-AT is working with Assistive Technology vendors to get to 100% Must and Should passing rates. This means
        that Assistive Technologies which use ARIA-AT will change over time.
        When implementing a pattern that has less than 100% support for either MUST and SHOULD, be careful not to modify
        code to accommodate the Assistive Technology failure, especially if doing so would affect passing Assistive
        Technologies.
      </p>

      <p>
        When possible, readers should test with an AT that scores 100% in the Must-have column and hew to to that AT
        since it is known to be working correctly.</p>

      <h3>Understand the failures</h3>
      <p>Where possible, APG readers should avoid implementing patterns that have a score lower than 100% in the must
        column. If, however, the reader finds themselves implementing a pattern with less than 100% in the Must column,
        they should
        take time to understand what is failing. Readers should learn what specific part of an implementation is
        problematic and design interactions around it that remain within the pattern's guidelines.
      </p>
      <p>
        Readers can learn more about the specific failures of a given pattern
        by
        navigating to the detailed report with the View Complete Report button.
      </p>

      <h3>Perform your own tests</h3>

      <p>
        The original purpose of ARIA-AT data are to help Assistive Technology vendors coordinate the interoperable
        rendering of ARIA. The ARIA-AT summary tables on APG should be used as an indicator for web developers about
        what
        areas to prioritize testing further, not as a final verdict on whether a feature in a web application will work.
        Readers should always test their application’s rendering with multiple assistive technologies.
      </p>
    </section>


  </div>

</div>
<script
  src="{{ '/content-assets/wai-aria-practices/shared/js/skipto.js' | relative_url }}"
  data-skipto="colorTheme:aria; displayOption:popup; containerElement:div"
></script>

